# You Plant


You Plant
Joseph Saputra and Ellen Campbell
(3a) This project, “YouPlant”, is a sandbox simulation of growing plants native to Midwestern prairies; the plants to grow are selected by the user, and the growth of each plant is dependent on environmental factors and the plants preferences.
(3bi) In order to run the code, Java 17 must be installed and operational and the user must have access to a mouse/mousepad or an assistive device for one. Furthermore, the user must be able to run/use the kilt graphics API and the “org.reflections.Reflictions” import. (3bii) The main class is within the “YouPlant” class in src: it can be run by either running the main class at line 42, or by clicking the “Run Java” button.
(c) In creating this project, we took references from the kilt graphics documentation, geeksforgeeks, past projects/labs(Critters, Registrar, RPGBattle, and WeatherWidget). For the art assets, we used several resources. In order to resize the images, we used Ibis paint. In order to create a transparent background for images, we used Remove.bg. We got the images for the American Plum Tree from SequoiaTrees.com (sapling), PNGItem (larger sapling), and cutout-trees.com (full-grown plant), the images for the Blue Stem from NRCS (seedling), Blazing Star Gardens (larger seedling), and The Urban Farmer (full-grown plant), the images for the Common Milkweed from Missouri Weed ID (seedling), NatureWatch.ca (larger seedling), and The Living Seed Company (full-grown plant), the images for the Eastern BottleBrush Grass from Gardenia.net (seedling), Go Botany - Native Plant Trust (larger seedling), and Michigan Wildflower Farm (full-grown plant), the images for GoldenRod from Melvin Wei (seedling), Minnesota WildFlowers (larger seedling), and Prairie Moon Nursery (full-grown plant), the images for the Leadplant from EverWilde Farms (seedling), Grow Native (larger seedling), and AppleWood Seed Company (full-grown plant), the images for the Shagbark Hickory from SpeedTree (seedling, larger seedling) and Long Island Natives (full-grown plant), the images for the St. JohnsWort from Ohio WeedGuide (seedling), Minnesota WildFlowers (larger seedling), and PlantAddicts (full-grown plant), the images for Sumac from SpeedTree (seedling), McKay Nursery (larger seedling), and Oklahoma Department of Agriculture (full-grown plant), and the images for Tall Meadow Rue from Minnesota WildFlowers (seedling, larger seedling, full-grown plant).
(4a) There are only 10 varieties of plants which can be grown. Users cannot change the properties of the soil/environments. Each plant only has 3 stages.
4(b) The runtime may become an issue, as they can create an unlimited number of plants since the main point of our program is to create as many plants that grow/survive as possible. Since we set the location of the image using a random method, the plants will occasionally overlap or overshadow one another. In order for the user to see the canvas while using the “Draw Plants” button, they will need to move the “Plants” canvas which appears to either be outside of or out of the way of the “You Plant” canvas. 
(5i) Our game lacks accessibility features for those who are visually-impaired, blind, and possibly for those who have fine motor disabilities, meaning this game would exclude them or make playing it harder. In addition, the game is in English, so those who do not understand the words in the game would be excluded or unable to play the game as best they could. The game does not acknowledge Indigenous people’s role in the maintenance and cultivation of prairies in the Midwest, current or historical, or use the authentic names for the plants given by these Indigenous groups, which could mean further erasure or disconnection between the understanding of Indigenous people’s history and right to the land called the Midwest. These problems could be solved by allowing users to select which language they would like to play in before beginning, adding audio samples for each function/button in the game in the language selected, making sure that assistive devices for a mouse/mousepad are compatible with the game, renaming the plants to those given to them by Indigenous people, giving credit to the cultivation and history of Indigenous peoples and prairies in the Midwest before beginning, and providing resources/groups for the user to continue to look into in order to understand and help Indigenous people’s preservation/access to prairies and their history. Before/while these would be implemented, it would be important to consult those more knowledgeable in these fields/shortcomings, such as visually-impaired/blind people, people with fine motor disabilities, multilingual people, non-English speaking people, and Indigenous groups/people native to the so-called Midwest. 
(5ii) Given that there is no competitive or time-based factor of the game, we do not anticipate that it may be used in order to create judgment or a false sense of win/loss between those who play, which could put those who are visually-impaired, blind, or non-fluent in English at a disadvantage. However, the game could be used to further erase Indigenous peoples connection and history with the plants and region within the game, which could be used for malicious/oppressive purposes. This could be solved by using the solutions identified previously. 
(5iii) Yes, there could be unintended consequences, such as the user having a false sense of understanding of the plants needs in order to survive (temperature, water, sun, etc.) or the time needed for the plants to grow, which may lead to confusion or disappointment should the events of the game be attempted in real life. In addition, should someone outside of the so-called Midwest/North American region try to replicate the events of the game in real life, or in a region where the land should not be tampered with, it could lead to issues such as invasive species spread/introduction, loss of biodiversity, or land desecration. These oversights could be solved by clarifying that the events of the game are not entirely realistic, providing sources should the user wish to learn/clarify their information of the plants/land, and a disclaimer to not try the events of the game in real life without the proper precautions, knowledge, and, if need be, permission. Furthermore, potential unintended consequences are similar to the problems identified above, such as normalization of inaccessibility in games or the erasure of Indigenous history/right to the land. In order to solve/account for this, the solutions identified in 5ii and 5i need to be considered.





